All right now we're going to take a look at calling Katlin from Java.
And when we want to do this we're usually starting with a java project so I'm going to go through the
project creation process because there is one configuration step that you have to do if you want to
call Katlin.
So we'll come up to file new project and this time we want to jab a project and we could pull in cotland
here but all do it when I actually add a Cartland file to the project and it's going to be a console
application.
And if we want the main method generated for us we can click this and that will generate the main method.
And now we come to this dialog here.
I'm going to call this project call Cartland from Java and it will remember the package that you were
using previously.
I was playing around with this at one point and I have so I already have it package Academie that learn
programming.
Call in from Java and I might as well keep that package for this project too.
So I'll just click Finish.
But if you want it to if there is no package name here or you didn't want the same package name you
could change it here.
So I click Finish and I want to open the project in this window and we get our expected Java project
with the main method generated.
So now I want to add CANTLIN into this project so I'm going to make a new package for our Cartland code.
Or call it academy got learn programming.
It's called Koplin code.
And now a lot of CANTLIN file and I'm going to add a CANTLIN file called car.
Now when I do that you'll see we get a message saying that Katlin is not configured and it's easy to
configure it you just come down to the alert box here expand it and then you're given two choices.
Do you want to target the JVM or do you want to target javascript.
Well we want to target the JVM So we're going to click the Cartland Java module link and we can accept
all of the defaults on this dialogue and the idea went ahead and configured the Koplin runtime for us
so essentially all it's done is it's added the dependencies that are required to build and run this
project.
OK so let's go ahead and add the usual car class we've been working with before so we'll save Vau color
string Val model string and foul year.
And let's now add a top level function.
So we'll say fun.
Top level equals print line time in the car file.
OK so that's great.
So now we want to call this top level function from Java.
How do we do that.
What class name do we use because we come to java of course and we just say you know top level.
That's not going to work and has no clue.
But look what happened.
The idea popped up a message it's gone now but it told us how to call this function.
I mentioned near the beginning of the course when we went over quick differences between Cartland and
Java that when you're dealing with top level items the compiler will generate a static class under the
covers for all the top level items.
And what it will do is it will give the class the same name as the CANTLIN file.
And so in this case the class name that we have to use to call any top level functions in here is actually
car Katie.
It includes the extension.
And so if we come back here and we say car then you'll see right here it suggesting car to us.
So car k t dot top level and it works.
And if we go ahead and run
we'll see.
I'm in the car file.
So we were meant we managed to call the top level function and again it's important to note that the
extension is actually included in the class name and that actually helps us out here because we already
have a car class.
But let's say it didn't include the extension and we had some type of naming conflict in here so for
some strange reason we already had a car class in fact let's just temporarily change this to car.
Katie now we're getting a problem because decompilers like I have no clue what you want to do.
I see a car Kaytee class so and it doesn't have a top level function.
So what would we do in this case.
Well you can change the name of the static class that the compiler the calling compiler will create
under the covers for you and you do that using the JVM name and annotation and you put it right at the
top of the file before the package name.
So up here we could say file JVM name and then in parentheses we put what we want is called So let's
say we want this called static car.
So what we're doing here is we're telling the compiler you know that static class you're going to generate
under the covers for us for all of our top level members we'll call that class static car.
That's what we want the name of that class to be and then if we come up here or back to our job and
we staes say static car you'll see that now that's being suggested to us and we can go ahead and call
this function.
So that's how you take care of naming conflicts or for some reason you don't want the the saying in
the name you just want to give your own name.
So that's fine.
I'll leave aside as it is and I'm going to pull this Kaytee out here because we just want this to be
car but everything still works fine.
I'll have to remove this import now because there is no current Katie and let's run
we'll see that we can still call our top level function in car perfectly fine and we're using the name
that we asked the compiler to give the class.
Now you would call extension functions in the same way because it's extension functions are top level
functions.
So if you wanted to call an extension function from Java you'd have to precede the name with the name
of the class.
So let's define an extension function here on string Let's say so say find string dot print.
That's stupid.
But and we'll say print line this.
And so if we wanted to call this we'd just say main line of main function here now and we'd say print
this dot print.
And that would work.
I'll have to run from Katlin if I just want to run this from Kotla now.
And will say print this.
So now we want to call the extension function from Java and we don't we can't do it the way we do it
from Katlin we can't use the string instance to invoke this function we have to invoke it.
Just like a regular function now so we'd say something like.
Print this Javins string just so we know it's coming from Java.
And if we go like that we're not going to see our extension function because we it's in that static
class so instead we have to call it just like we call in a normal function and say static hard dot print
and do the following.
And if we run our main function now our main method rather we'll see print is Java strings so when you're
using extension functions from Java it's not as nice as when you're using them from within Cartland
but you can use them in the way that I just showed you.
All right so let's try to access member properties from Java now so we know that we have our core class
and it has three properties in it.
So let's go ahead and try to use those from Java.
So we'll say Carcar equals new car and we'll give it a color of blue.
We'll make it a BMW and we'll make it a 2011 car.
And now we can say system out print line
car docked model and so you can see here in Jaba where we're calling get Monell because the compiler
of course has generated setters and getters we just don't see them.
And so we can access them as we normally would access getters and setters from Java.
Now obviously if you made any of these private you would not be able to access them here.
And also there won't be a card not set model.
If we look at that card set you'll see we don't have one because these are vowel properties and so only
a getter is generated for them not a setter.
Let's go back to Collin and let's let's generate a private sector for one of these so instead of declaring
color as part of the primary constructor signature we'll declare it in the class and it has to be a
VAR because we're going to want to set it and we'll assign it the color that comes in when this instance
is constructed.
But then we want a custom set and we'll just say field equals always green.
So if you construct an instance you can give whatever color you want but if you then set the color we're
gonna set it to always green.
So now let's go back to our Java class and we'll say card set color purple purple
.
Print out the color
get color let's run.
Can't tell what you mean method.
This belongs to now so I'll run from here.
And you'll see that the color is always green so the Cartland compiler is generating a set color now
for this and it generates the custom set.
All this to say that if you have custom sets and gets then Java will access those just like it accesses
the default ones when you don't have custom sets and gets.
But now let's make this set private.
Will come in here and say actually we're going to make this private.
We don't want anybody to be able to call this unless they're in our class and we'll go back and do our
job and we see that we have an error.
So you can restrict access to this getter and setter using an access modifier.
So here are properties actually public because we haven't specified a modifier here but the set is private.
Now one final note about this.
A Of course as I said a setter will only be generated for var properties.
So if we try to call set model we won't be able to and I think we tried that before.
So if we say card set model
it won't even recognize that we have a set model method because Cartland didn't generate one.
So in the case of setting it private It does know that there's a set method there it just knows that
it can't access it here.
There isn't one at all.
OK so I'm going to now comment this out and declare it back up in the primary constructor and we'll
come back here and come just delete this line to get rid of the air.
OK so let's add a boolean property to the car class.
So we'll say now is automatic and that'll be a boolean.
So now let's get this value from Jaba.
So we'll come back here.
Well first we need to say let's say this is an automatic.
I have no clue if they're automatically in use but for our purposes there are and we'll say system got
out of print line card dot and we'll see that intelligence in this case is suggesting is automatic rather
than get.
So when you're dealing with booleans it generates a get are called is rather than a get a getter called
Get whatever.
So that's a special rule for book for boolean properties.
Now what about.
Set Well let's go ahead and make this VAR for a second I'll just complete this so that we don't get
compiler errors.
Let's go ahead and make to say so that all the Cartland compiler will generate a set.
And let's see what we get suggested to us now so we'll say Card Daut and you'll see set Automattic.
So for booleans you still get the usual set but for the Gap method it'll use is instead of get.
Now how about properties is more than two words is the camel casing preserved.
Let's come back here and we'll just say temporarily change this model name.
And if we come back here now and do the same trick car Daut and we'll see that we get get model name.
So the camel casing is preserved.
All right.
I'm going to put everything back the way it was.
I'm actually going to remove the automatic property and take off the model here.
And we're back to what we had before.
Now we can also access Cartland fields directly.
You might have a situation where you want Java to be able to access a property without going through
the getter or setter.
So right now back in Java we can't do the following.
We can't say Caracappa model that doesn't work.
We have to go through to get.
Now if you want Java code to be able to do that you can add an annotation to the property.
So let's go back to the car class and let's say we want to be able to access model in that way we can
say at jayvee am field and now we should be able to access model just by saying car Daut model.
And we can see can see now instead of suggesting the gat.
It says you can go ahead and just use model.
So it's one or the other.
You can either access a Java field using a get method if there is one available or using the property
name depending on whether you've included the JVM name annotation or not.
So I would make sure that your Java code is consistent.
I would be inclined to still use the methods but it's up to you.
Now there are a few restrictions on when you can use the at JVM fields annotation.
You can't use it with private properties you can't use it with a property that overrides another property
or a property that can be overridden or with a constant property that uses the Konst key word.
So there are a few restrictions there to be aware of.
OK I'm going to stop the video here and in the next video we'll continue looking at calling Koplin from
Java.
See you there.